[CUBRIDQA-864] add shell_long test Guide (#558)
CUBRID/cubrid-testtools: doc/shell_long/README.md

# 1. Test Objective  
This guide is to introduce how to execute shell_long test suite via test tool CTP.  The shell_long test case specification is exactly same as general SHELL test case's. The only difference between them is that shell_long test cases ask a little long time to execute.     

# 2. Test Introduction  
## 2.1 CTP test tool

> Please refer to [ctp usage for shell](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/shell/shell_guide.md#2-ctp-introduction)   

Reviewer: Correct to the link for common installation guide of CTP.

the CTP usage for shell_long regression test is as below   
```bash
ctp.sh shell -c ~/CTP/conf/shell_runtime.conf
```

> for regression test, we will copy `shell_template_for_shell_long.conf` to `shell_runtime.conf`   

Reviewer: Follow same way to describe in in cci guide.
It's better not to describe things related to regression test. We hope that developer users may get guide from here.

```
$ cd cubrid-testcases-private/longcase/
$ find ./ -name "*.sh"                              
./5hour/bug_bts_16594/cases/bug_bts_16594.sh
./5hour/bug_bts_4707/cases/bug_bts_4707.sh
./5hour/bug_bts_7288/cases/bug_bts_7288.sh
./5hour/bug_bts_16581/cases/bug_bts_16581.sh
./5hour/bug_bts_6753_2/cases/bug_bts_6753_2.sh
./5hour/bug_bts_6785/cases/bug_bts_6785.sh
./5hour/bug_bts_6396/cases/bug_bts_6396.sh
./1hour/bug_bts_15629/cases/bug_bts_15629.sh
./1hour/bug_bts_15419_1_asc/cases/bug_bts_15419_1_asc.sh
./1hour/bug_bts_5222/cases/bug_bts_5222.sh
./1hour/bug_bts_17881/cases/bug_bts_17881.sh
./1hour/bug_bts_18031/cases/bug_bts_18031.sh
./1hour/bug_bts_9382/cases/bug_bts_9382.sh
./1hour/bug_bts_15419_1_desc/cases/bug_bts_15419_1_desc.sh
./1hour/bug_bts_15419_2_asc/cases/bug_bts_15419_2_asc.sh
./1hour/bug_bts_7350/cases/bug_bts_7350.sh
./1hour/_02_cursor_stress/cases/_02_cursor_stress.sh
...
./2hour/_02_cursor_stress/cases/_02_cursor_stress.sh
./2hour/bug_bts_10009/cases/bug_bts_10009.sh
./2hour/bug_bts_9969/cases/bug_bts_9969.sh
```
How to write new shell_long test cases   
please see [shell long cases specification](#5test-case-specification)

# 3. Deploy Shell_long Regression Test

> In this section, we will introduce how to deploy the Shell_long Regression Test Environment.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we will introduce how to deploy the shell_long Regression Test Environment.  
```

<td>test node</td>
<td>shell_long</td>
<td>192.168.1.99</td>
<td>func24</td>
<td><p>CTP</p>
<p>cubrid-testcases-private</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>test node</td>
<td>shell_long</td>
<td>192.168.1.100</td>
<td>func25</td>
<td><p>CTP</p>
<p>cubrid-testcases-private</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>test node</td>
<td>shell_long</td>
<td>192.168.1.101</td>
<td>func26</td>
<td><p>CTP</p>
<p>cubrid-testcases-private</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>test node</td>
<td>shell_long</td>
<td>192.168.1.102</td>
<td>func27</td>
<td><p>CTP</p>
<p>cubrid-testcases-private</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>test node</td>
<td>shell_long</td>
<td>192.168.1.103</td>
<td>func28</td>
<td><p>CTP</p>
<p>cubrid-testcases-private</p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

## 3.2	Test Deployments
### For all nodes
1. Install JDK
2. Add IP and hostname to /etc/hosts
```
192.168.1.99  func24  
192.168.1.100  func25    
192.168.1.101  func26  
192.168.1.102  func27  
192.168.1.103  func28   
```
3. checkout git repositories to $HOME/
```
git clone https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools.git
cd ~/cubrid-testtools/
git checkout develop
```
### On Controller node  
1. Install CTP      

> Please follow [the guide to install CTP](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md).

Reviewer: Change link to https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#3-install-ctp-as-regression-test-platform

3. touch start_test.sh  
```bash
 cat ~/start_test.sh

# If only need to listen the shell_long test message
# nohup start_consumer.sh -q QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SHELL_LONG_LINUX -exec run_shell &

# We use one controllar to listening shell_heavy, shell_long, and RQG test messages in dailyqa.
nohup start_consumer.sh -q QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SHELL_HEAVY_LINUX,QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_RQG,QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SHELL_LONG_LINUX -exec run_shell,run_shell,run_shell &   
```
 4. Update ~/.bash_profile    
 ```
 $ cat .bash_profile 
# .bash_profile

# Get the aliases and functions
if [ -f ~/.bashrc ]; then
        . ~/.bashrc
fi

# User specific environment and startup programs

PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin:$HOME/bin

export PATH

export DEFAULT_BRANCH_NAME=develop
export CTP_HOME=$HOME/CTP
export CTP_BRANCH_NAME=develop
export CTP_SKIP_UPDATE=0

export CTP_HOME=~/CTP
export init_path=$CTP_HOME/shell/init_path
export RQG_HOME=~/random_query_generator
PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$HOME/CTP/common/script:$PATH
```
 
5. start consumer process  
```bash
 sh start_test.sh
```

### On Test nodes
1. Install CTP  

> Please follow [the guide to install CTP](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md).

Reviewer: Change the link as above request.

# 1. Test Objective  

> The document is to introduce how to test shell_long via CTP. It is similiar with shell test with CTP.For some shell cases, it spend so much time which affects the end of shell regression test, then remove them to shell_long test category.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide is to introduce how to execute shell_long test suite via test tool CTP.  The shell_long test case specification is exactly same as general SHELL test case's. The only difference between them is that shell_long test cases ask a little long time to execute. 

```

> # 2. Tools Introduction  

Reviewer: As is:

# 2. Tools Introduction  

To be:

# 2. Test Introduction  
2.1 CTP Test Tool
2.2 Shell_long Test Cases

## 2.1 CTP tools

> Please refer to [README.md](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/CTP/README.md) of CTP  

Reviewer: Need inherit shell guide (provide a link).

General usage should be merged to shell guide.

Please check information provided in this guide and decide whether to merge to shell guide.

<tr class="even">
<td>test node</td>
<td>shell_long</td>
<td>192.168.1.99</td>
<td>func24</td>
<td><p>CTP</p>
<p>cubrid-testcases-private</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>test node</td>
<td>shell_long</td>
<td>192.168.1.100</td>
<td>func25</td>
<td><p>CTP</p>
<p>cubrid-testcases-private</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>test node</td>
<td>shell_long</td>
<td>192.168.1.101</td>
<td>func26</td>
<td><p>CTP</p>
<p>cubrid-testcases-private</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>test node</td>
<td>shell_long</td>
<td>192.168.1.102</td>
<td>func27</td>
<td><p>CTP</p>
<p>cubrid-testcases-private</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>test node</td>
<td>shell_long</td>
<td>192.168.1.103</td>
<td>func28</td>
<td><p>CTP</p>
<p>cubrid-testcases-private</p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

## 3.2	Test Deployments
### For all nodes
1. Install JDK
2. Add IP and hostname to /etc/hosts
```
192.168.1.99  func24  
192.168.1.100  func25    
192.168.1.101  func26  
192.168.1.102  func27  
192.168.1.103  func28   
```
3. checkout git repositories to $HOME/
```
git clone https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools.git
cd ~/cubrid-testtools/
git checkout develop
```
### On Controller node
1. Install CTP  

> Please follow [the guide to install CTP](http://jira.cubrid.org/browse/CUBRIDQA-835?focusedCommentId=4753733&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-4753733).  

Reviewer: Find CTP installation link in https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools

```
### Check `ERROR_BACKUP` Directory
When we execute shell_long test,server appears crash or fatal error,the current db and other important information will be save in ~/ERROR_BACKUP,you need check it for each build and clear them in time.
```bash
$ cd ~/ERROR_BACKUP/
$ ls
AUTO_10.2.0.8038-b6e1d4b_20181010_152229.tar.gz  AUTO_10.2.0.8254-c015eb2_20190214_005631.tar.gz               AUTO_SERVER-START_10.2.0.8254-c015eb2_20190213_023728.tar.gz
AUTO_10.2.0.8060-689ccdd_20181019_014026.tar.gz  AUTO_10.2.0.8329-51e235e_20190413_151229.tar.gz               AUTO_SERVER-START_10.2.0.8362-fbf9d84_20190526_055005.tar.gz
AUTO_10.2.0.8060-689ccdd_20181019_040434.tar.gz  AUTO_10.2.0.8349-bb21e2d_20190428_190725.tar.gz               AUTO_SERVER-START_10.2.0.8362-fbf9d84_20190526_055233.tar.gz
AUTO_10.2.0.8107-a05cfaa_20181028_053656.tar.gz  AUTO_10.2.0.8362-fbf9d84_20190526_060734.tar.gz
AUTO_10.2.0.8254-c015eb2_20190213_025432.tar.gz  AUTO_SERVER-START_10.2.0.8254-c015eb2_20190213_020024.tar.gz
```  
# 5.Test Case Specification
## 5.1 Requirements
export init_path=$HOME/CTP/shell/init_path

> ## 5.2 How To Write Test Case    

Reviewer: Check and merge to shell guide (written by Mandy)

  fi
}
```

* finish  
After the test have completed,we need clear test environment to avoid affect other shell cases  
Refer to [Example Test Cases](#Example-Test-Cases)  
```
function finish {
#  rm -f *.err *.log >/dev/null 2>&1
  rm -f userver.err.* >/dev/null 2>&1
  rm -f uclient.err.* >/dev/null 2>&1
  rm -f client.err.* >/dev/null 2>&1
  rm -rf ./lob
  cubrid service stop
  pkill cub >/dev/null 2>&1
  if [ $need_count_time -eq 1 ]; then
        count_time
  fi
  release_broker_sharedmemory
  delete_ini
  restore_all_conf
  echo "[INFO] TEST STOP (`date`)"
}
```
* format_query_plan  
When the result have query plan,it maybe unstable,we need use this function.  
```
format_query_plan  result${i}.log
```

* xkill_pid  
This function is used for kill process 
```
xkill_pid $java_pid
```

* do_make_locale   
run make_locale.sh or make_locale.bat for linux or windows  
```
do_make_locale release
do_make_locale debug
do_make_locale
```

* xgcc  
compile C code on linux or windows platform.  
```
xgcc -I${CUBRID}/include -L${CUBRID}/lib -lcascci ${MODE}  -o test2 test2.c
xgcc -o cci cci.c -lpthread
xgcc -g -o testbug9251 sus9251.c 
xgcc -o test test.c
```

> **Notice: there are other common functions,you can refer to $init_path/init.sh**  

Reviewer: Link to shell guide which describe this.
